## WEEK 5 DISCUSSION | MANAGING TEAMS

1. You are a manager of a team that is taking a long time to move through the Storming stage. There are two individuals on the team that seem to be unproductive when dealing with conflict and are holding the team back. What would you do to help the team move through conflict management and begin Norming and Performing?

  As stated in the text storming is a stage where members are fighting for control over what happens in the group. This effect is amplified when the group is full of people that have different skills, views, and styles so it is important that this stage ends with an effective resolution and leadership. So how should you resolve a stalled storming stage where nothing is improving?

  There is one clear answer to this questions that comes to me almost immediately and it can only be used in certain situations. If I am the manager of the group then I have control. All that needs to be done in order to resolve power disputes in my subordinates is to remind them that decisions and control are in my hands. Now I know this isn't the most creative way to deal with the problem but it certainly needs to be one of them. A lot of the time in this scenario you need to get the project completed quickly and there isn't enough time to take each member away from the group and talk to them about what they want and then give them direction. Instead you need to make quick, effective decisions that your group members will follow so the project will be completed on time. 

  On the other hand it is important in some instances to not over manage and control your working groups, especially if you are not actively working on the project with them. So in order to help control there roles and conflict simply restating the teams roles and responsibilities can help. The text states that simple misunderstandings and confusion is often a common problem that extends the storming phase longer then it needs to. Reaffirming the groups knowledge and roles can help to move them on to the next stage.  

  Another important part of resolving this stage it so make sure that group members are communicating effectively. As stated in the example problem there are only two members of the team that are having problems. Most likely they are thinking in two entirely different ways. In order to solve this as a manager it is important to make sure that they are constantly communicating. So take them aside and first state the urgency in this project, as suggested in the text, and then suggest that the two of them work one on one. This can create a scenario where the two members would come up with a solution to the problem that fits both of there needs and wants and then present that to the rest of the group as an agreeing team.  
