## WEEK 2 DISCUSSION | PERCEPTION

You have been assigned to a small group of students for this discussion. Your original post (by Friday of this week) should address ONE of the following scenarios. No more than two students in the group can post on the same scenario. Make sure you reference material from the text (with page number cited) to support your post. No later than Sunday evening, reply with your insights to original posts from members of your group which respond to the two scenarios you did not address.

  1. Describe a mini-paradigm sift you have experienced.  How did this shift in paradigm  change your thoughts, feelings and behavior in the situation?
    -

  2. You manage the human resources department for a mid-sized retailer. Part of the operations consists of a call center with 100 employees spread over three shifts operating 24 hours a day, seven days a week. There is a main group with 20 people reporting to a shift supervisor on the main daytime shift from 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. There are regularly scheduled times for breaks and lunch. Recently senior management reported to you that they were concerned regarding tardiness of some employees. While the customer relationship management reports signal that there are no service issues, senior managers are concerned that they are overstaffed. You feel that the daytime shift is the most experienced group, and you do not want to lose some of the best employees through termination. You also do not have any budget money to use for incentive payments aimed at reducing tardiness. *What ideas from operand conditioning, behavior modification, and social learning theory would you use to reduce the problems of tardiness?*

    - Many businesses use behavior modification even if they don't know it. The process outlined in the text says that the steps to create behavior modification are "Establishing Clear Behavioral Criteria, Conducting a Performance Audit, Setting Specific Behavioral Goals, Evaluating Results, Administering Feedback and Rewards". These steps are often the normal process for management and have become so normal that many people don't realize that they are conditioning people to work a certain way.

    - In the question example the problem that that management is having related to tardiness can be resolved easily through Administering Feedback and Rewards. Since the management likes the workers they employ, punishment such as firing would not be effective so instead using rewards in combination with clear behavioral goals could change the tardiness of the workers. This of course will take time as explained and showed in the text since operand conditioning needs to allow the subject to associative good behavior with rewards but it could still be very effective.

    - This process could be as simple as having a meeting where behavioral goals(stimulus) are outlined and if someone meets them then they get a bonus, or a cookie(action), whatever they like. It could also be more complex and blind to the workers. Where without outlining behavioral goals whenever an employ comes in early naturally then they receive a reward that is visible to the rest of the staff. Often reinforcement of good behavior in groups is more effective since the subjects are more likely to see there fellow subjects behavior and relate it to getting the reward. This means that no stimulus is given and instead the behavior modification is just associated through observation. 

  3. During a diversity management session, a manager suggests that stereotypes are a necessary part of working with others.  "I have to make assumptions about what's in the other person's head, and stereotypes help me do that," she explains.  "It's better to rely on stereotypes than to enter a working relationship with someone from another culture without any idea of what they believe in!"  What would Dr. Heim think of this statement? Discuss the merits and problems with this viewpoint.
    -
