## WEEK 4 DISCUSSION | MOTIVATION

For this week's discussion visit several small and large company websites searching their career section. Select a company that presents career information that is attractive to you. Identify the company in your post (make sure you are not duplicating the same company as another member of your group).  Tell us what job features found on the website are motivating to you (provide links, embed videos, etc.). Identify how the features you highlight are connected to one or more of the theories of motivation presented in Chapter 7.

  Recently I've been applying and submitting applications to many businesses that are offering marketing internships that would apply to my knowledge. Most of these companies would have the typical posting about what they as a company strive for, and then they would have the details of what they want or what you will do in the job. This is all pretty standard stuff and usually its the exact same when you apply. Fill out your information, submit your resume, maybe a interesting question like "Why do you wan to work for us?" but that's it. Well about a month ago I applied to my fist posting that actually seemed to have some meaning and thought behind it.

  The company is name Friends of the Children and they are a Portland local Non-profit. And I know what your thinking oh there a non profit well of course they put some actual thought into there job listing, well you would be surprised. Anyway This company did something that I've really never seen before and made me want to work there, made me want to know more about them. They had 5 short answer questions in there application that were really targeted to learn what the person was like. They asked about your personal beliefs (not religious) and what you find interesting in the world. Stuff that you maybe would talk about in an interview and later on when your part of the company. This made the company much more attractive to me since it appeared they not only cared about the kind of employee they were after but they also knew what they wanted. By asking those questions they should that there company isn't just about job task but also that the people that work for them need to fit and have the same understanding.

  This is something that I have not seen before or after my application to the company and really makes me motivated to find a company that wants this much of a connection to there employees.
